# crowdsourcing-trapping

> 来源：`crowdsourcing-trapping.pdf`（AutoOffice to-markdown）

Skip to content 



   
 
    • Topics
        ◦ Quantum Networks
        ◦ Technology Exploration
        ◦ Network Security
        ◦ Research Cooperation
    • About
        ◦ About us
        ◦ Team
        ◦ Co-Research Ecosystem
    • Events
    • Jobs
    • News
    • Contact







Front PageAnja Kopperschmidt2025-10-08T14:24:56+02:00 
ABOUT US
T-Labs is the Research & Development department of Deutsche Telekom, dedicated to exploring disruptive trends and establishing technology leadership to create valuable business opportunities for Deutsche Telekom and its customers. Co-creation is at the core of our mission: we collaborate with academic institutions on research and run incubation programs with startups, developers, and strategic partners worldwide. We currently focus on future network technologies, including Quantum Networks, Network Security, Digital Twin, and ongoing Technology Exploration.
Quantum Networks 
Telecommunications networks belong to the most complex structures in modern industrial societies. The techno-economic evolution of these networks along the principles of decentralization, disaggregation and automation defies classical deterministic system analysis. It is driven by technological progress, notably the emergent world of quantum computing. Consequently, mastership of data-driven algorithmic approaches for optimized operation and preemptive cybersecurity in telecommunication systems become more and more important and must be achieved by large-scale operators such as Deutsche Telekom. This competence area is denoted as Artificial Intelligence. Its application to well-defined techno-economic contexts such as Open RAN, cybersecurity, quantum technology and radio network technology of the next generation (“6G”) is in the focus of T-Labs.
Technology Exploration
As digital technologies rapidly advance, Deutsche Telekom stands at the forefront of an industry-wide transformation. Central to our strategic vision is the integration of artificial intelligence technologies, which is becoming increasingly vital for telecom providers. It presents a crucial impetus for us to adapt our business models and undertake a comprehensive reevaluation of our network architecture. Embracing these challenges head-on, we are pioneering a future where our infrastructure meets the escalating demands of our customers with agility and resilience. Our Technology Exploration tribe research on AI-driven solutions that promise enhanced efficiency, predictive maintenance, and personalized customer experiences.

Network Security
The research area Network Security focusses on creating a powerful scientific toolkit for studying the most pressing issues of future telecommunication networks: Security, Efficiency, Stability and Complexity Management. To address those issues, we develop Digital Network Twin tools to investigate various questions, ranging from network resource optimization to aggregate energy consumption optimization.
Digital Network Twins furthermore support overarching and preemptive Network Security approaches. To be specific, we aim at leveraging the recent revolutionary progress in Generative AI for Network Security functionality.
TEAM
Experts and scientists from a wide variety of disciplines, as well as young entrepreneurs, from more than 25 nations all work together at T-Labs.

Petr Ledl

Riccardo Pascotto

Karina Otto

Prof. Dr. Axel Kuepper

Prof. Dr. Yuval Elovici

Prof. Dr. Jean-Pierre Seifert

Prof. Dr. Dr. Frank Fitzek

Prof. Dr. Peter Ruppel
CO-RESEARCH ECOSYSTEM
Based on our mission, T-Labs is researching on future oriented topics in particular using the opportunities  generated by the cooperation with universities, research institutes, startups and industry partners.
Since 2004, the Technische Universität Berlin (TU Berlin) and Deutsche Telekom came together to establish  an university-affiliated institute, Telekom Innovation Laboratories (T-Labs), as part of a public private partnership. The object of this partnership has been to carry out joint research in information and communications technology, and digital innovation.
Furthermore, T-Labs is engaged in a number of additional research cooperation with dedicated endowed chairs in Germany, in Europe and beyond. Our network of major university partnerships include: Technische Universität Berlin, Technische Universität Dresden, CODE University of Applied Sciences (Berlin), Eötvös Loránd Universität (Budapest), Technische Universität Wien and Ben-Gurion-Universität des Negev (Israel).
T-Labs is bringing experts from Deutsche Telekom, together with scientists from  various national and international universities and research facilities, on a project basis,  to develop innovative solutions for the near and long-term future.
In Germany, these research cooperation span a nation-wide network across most of the “Excellence Universities” to form a technology cluster dedicated to specific topics. A concrete example is the 5G Co:Creation Lab  set with industry Partners as part of the NRW Tech Cluster, with Technology & Arts TH Köln & University of Köln.
With the aforementioned project partnerships, endowed chairs, and joint ventures on a national and European level, Deutsche Telekom is making an active contribution to the realization of commercial projects, to the transfer of technology, and to innovation marketing.
Upcoming Events
    • 
      Join T-Labs at i14y-Lab Summit and 6G Conference in Berlin 2026, Sept. 7th-10th 
                  Join T-Labs at i14y-Lab Summit and 6G Conference in Berlin 2026, Sept. 7th-10th 
      Events Upcoming
Join T-Labs at i14y-Lab Summit and 6G Conference in Berlin 2026, Sept. 7th-10th
Anja Kopperschmidt2026-06-09T14:35:51+02:00June 4th, 2026|
T-Labs is excited to announce its participation in two premier industry events this September 2026: the i14y-Lab Summit and the 6G Conference in Berlin! Our expert, Heiko Lehmann, will co-lead insightful sessions. Take this opportunity to engage with leading minds, explore groundbreaking projects, and dive into the future of telecommunications. Below are the details of our sessions: i14y-Lab Summit: Quo vadis 6G-integrated RAN – Complexity, Stability, and Efficiency 🗓 Date: September 7, 2026 ⏰ Time: 16:45 - 17:45 📍 Location: bcc Berlin Congress Center GmbH, Alexanderstr. 11, 10178 Berlin (Germany) While we have AI/ML seen to invade a lot of isolated functions [...]
Read More
Past events
    • 
      13th FOKUS Media Web Symposium, June 16th-17th in Berlin 
                  13th FOKUS Media Web Symposium, June 16th-17th in Berlin 
      Events Past
13th FOKUS Media Web Symposium, June 16th-17th in Berlin
Anja Kopperschmidt2026-06-29T13:25:41+02:00June 12th, 2026|
"Serving Smarter: Predictive Resource Management in CDNsServing Smarter: Predictive Resource Management in CDNs" T-Labs , Peter Pogrzeba is speaking on the 13th FOKUS Media Web Symposium by Fraunhofer FOKUS on June 16-17 in Berlin In this presentation, he will showcase the results of our collaborative project with DT-Technik and ELTE University in Budapest. Peter Pogrzeba will demonstrate how advanced data analytics and AI-driven methods can be leveraged to significantly optimize energy consumption in a Content Delivery Network (CDN). Importantly, this optimization is achieved without compromising vital factors such as service quality (QoS, QoE) or operational reliability. [...]
Read More
    • 
      Join the masterclass at: Deep Tech Momentum in Berlin, May 20th-21st 
                  Join the masterclass at: Deep Tech Momentum in Berlin, May 20th-21st 
      Events Past
Join the masterclass at: Deep Tech Momentum in Berlin, May 20th-21st
Anja Kopperschmidt2026-06-03T10:51:10+02:00May 7th, 2026|
Masterclass From First Meeting to Real Impact: Inside a Startup–Corporate Collaboration That Worked (and What Didn’t) - register here What really happens when a deep tech startup meets a global corporation? In this interactive masterclass, Syntho (AI-driven synthetic data startup) and Deutsche Telekom take you behind the scenes of their year-long collaboration journey — from first contact at Deep Tech Momentum to a real-world proof of concept in telecom environments. Together, CEO Wim Kees Janssen and Deutsche Telekom’s Martin Martiska will share an unfiltered perspective on: How the collaboration started — and what almost stopped it [...]
Read More
    • 
      Meet us at: IEEE 6G Summit in Dresden, May 19th-20th 
                  Meet us at: IEEE 6G Summit in Dresden, May 19th-20th 
      Events Past
Meet us at: IEEE 6G Summit in Dresden, May 19th-20th
Anja Kopperschmidt2026-06-03T10:51:37+02:00May 4th, 2026|
Save the date for May 19 & 20, 2026 We will be back again this year at the 11th chapter of the IEEE 6G Summit! Deutsche Telekom is one of the Diamond Sponsor with our own dedicated stand featuring exciting demos. Above all, we are participating as T-Labs, the Research & Development unit of Deutsche Telekom, bringing cutting-edge innovations directly from our labs to the Summit. Join us at the International Congress Center Dresden for an inspiring two-day event that unites industry leaders, academic pioneers, and tech enthusiasts The Summit will captivate with insightful talks [...]
Read More
12Next
SOCIAL MEDIA
Live content from the core of T-Labs.
JOBS
Come and work with us! We are offering opportunities both in TU Berlin and Telekom. Become part of an international, diverse team of researchers, designers, engineers and business experts.

Find out more here!
CONTACT
Deutsche Telekom AG, T-Labs
Winterfeldtstraße 21
10781 Berlin, Germany
t-labs.info@telekom.de

    • Disclaimer
    • Privacy policy
    • Imprint
© 2026 Deutsche Telekom AG 
Page load link 
Cookie settings
This website uses cookies and similar technologies. These are small text files that are stored and read on your computer. By clicking on "Accept all", you accept the processing, the creation of individual user profiles across websites and partners, and the transfer of your data to third parties, some of whom process your data in countries outside the European Union (GDPR Art. 49). Details can be found in section 3 of the privacy information. The data is used for analysis, retargeting and for playing out personalized content and advertising on Telekom sites and third-party sites. Further information, including information on data processing by third-party providers and the possibility of revocation, can be found in the settings and in our privacy information.
Required cookie 
Services by other companies 
Show details 
                • Required cookie
      These cookies are required to enable you to navigate through the websites and use key functions. They support basic functions, such as order processing in the online shop and access to secured areas of the web page. They also serve the purpose of performing an anonymous analysis of user patterns, which we use to continuously develop and improve our web pages for you.
Company	Purpose	Storage period	Country of processing
OTC Webhosting Pro*1	Data Security	7 days	Germany
      When you visit our websites, the web server temporarily records the domain name or IP address of your computer, the file request of the client (file name and URL), the http response code and the website from which you are visiting us. The logged data is used exclusively for the purposes of data security, in particular to defend against attempts to attack our web server (Art. 6 Para. 1 f DSGVO). They are neither used for the creation of individual user profiles nor passed on to third parties and are deleted after 7 days at the latest. We reserve the right to statistically evaluate anonymous data records. 
                • Services by other companies
      Telekom’s websites include links to third party service providers, who provide their services under their own responsibility. When you visit Telekom’s web pages, cookies or similar technologies record data and send it to third parties, in part for Telekom’s own purposes. The scope, purpose and legal basis on which further processing is carried out for the third party’s own purposes can be found in the third party’s data privacy information. Information on the independent third party providers can be found in the data privacy information. 
Company	Purpose	Storage period	Country of processing
X*2	  
Embedded timeline	30 days	  
EU (Ireland)
      Supplementary information:
      *2 Twitter
      By using the integrated Twitter feed, the following data can be transmitted to the social media providers: IP address, browser information, operating system, screen resolution, installed browser plug-ins such as Adobe Flash Player, previous website if you followed a link (referrer), the URL of the current website, etc. If you click the Twitter "tweet button" while logged in to your Twitter account, you can link the content of our pages on your Twitter profile. This allows Twitter to associate visits to our pages with your user account. We would like to point out that we, as the provider of the pages, have no knowledge of the content of the transmitted data or its use by Twitter. If you do not want Twitter to be able to link your visit to our pages, please log out of your Twitter user account. For further information, please refer to the Twitter privacy policy (https://twitter.com/privacy)
Imprint 
Confirm selection Select all 
Go to Top
